Let's go ahead and move on to our next frame.
Now we're going to leave this document open because we're going to use it later.
But for now let's come up to file open then we're going to come into our staining folder and that's
where our original character design is and we want to use this as a base for next frame.
So we'll go ahead and open that awesome.
Now what we're going to do with this one is we're going to create the passin frame which is where both
the legs pass each other to cross over to the other side.
So let's come back and have a look at our reference so we can see what I'm talking about.
So we just did this one where the legs are across from each other they're spread apart and they're both
touching the ground.
Now this one is where both the legs are going to be crossing so that they can get to the other side.
All right.
So let's go ahead and let's do this.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to add a new layer now on this layer we're going
to go ahead and do our sketch.
Someone to select a black.
So go ahead and we'll just start sketching that in now.
Kind of an easy way to draw legs is to use ovals so I use an oval for the top half of the leg and an
oval for the calf of the leg.
All right.
Awesome.
So something about like that should do next where we want to do is we want to add a new layer above
that then using her Lasso tool.
We're going to start with this backlog and we're going to trace it out
now since this leg is going to be behind this one.
It's going to be hard to tell the difference between the two legs.
It's going to become one big shape if they're both the same color.
So what we're going to do to help with that is we're going to select our darker skin tone over here
that we use for this back arm to make it look like it was in shadow and we're going to go ahead and
fill in our backlog with that color grepped next what we want to do is we want to go ahead and delete
our back legs.
So we'll come down to our body layer then using the Lasso tool we'll go ahead and select those legs
then hit delete.
So now those are out of our way.
That's where we want to do is we want to come back up to this leg we just created and we're going to
turn to offer a second so we can see the front leg.
Now the front leg is going to be coming in front of the loincloth.
So we need to create this leg up in the loincloth folder and above the cloth layer.
So we'll come up to loin cloth and then at the very top of all those layers we're going to add a new
layer.
And this is what we're going to create.
This front leg on the will go ahead and start tracing out that shape
perfect.
Now let's go ahead and fill that in with our lighter skin tone.
Great.
Now you'll see there's a little problem here is that we covered up this piece of the drawstring.
So the way we can get that back in front of our Lay is by coming down to the layer that the drawstring
is on and using our Lasso tool we're going to trace out this little section right here that the leg
is covering up.
Then we're going to copy it and then coming back up to our top layer where our leg is on.
We're going to paste it in a little piece on a new layer and above that leg and then we can reposition
it.
So just like that awesome.
Now let's go ahead and come back down to our body layer and we're going to turn our back leg on.
We can also turn off our sketch.
Perfect.
It's looking great.
I'm noticing over here we have a little bit of some unpainted area.
So what I'll do is I'm going to come up to that leg layer pre-select this darker skin tone than just
using my brush tool.
I'll just go ahead and fill that in.
You just finished your second frame.
Now the reason why we're not going to mess with the arms is because in the last frame if you see here
his arms go down then when his legs are going to cross we want his arms come back up to the mid level
and then when his legs crossed.
Opposite of what they are now.
That's when we want his arms to go all the way up.
So that's why we're leaving his arms in the position that they're in right now.
OK let's go ahead and create a copy of this character so that we can bring him into our Spryte sheet.
So will come all the way down to the spear folder and then come all the way up to the mask folder selecting
all of them and then we're just going to copy them control J or command J.
And then we're going to merge those copies great.
Now keeping our copy selected we want to come all the way down to the bottom and select our background
as well by holding down control than selecting our background and that will select both of them.
Now let's grab one of those layers and it will drag both of them over into our Spryte sheet.
And let's go ahead and just drop him in and we're going to position I'm using our grab a move tool.
And if you're snap to is on it should snap right into place.
Awesome.
Now let's go ahead and let's delete that back layer
right now before we go any further.
I want to go ahead and start labeling these.
So we're going to label this first one frame one.
So about what we'll call the next one frame two or two.
Great.
Now we're going to go ahead and put those in a folder.
And we're going to call that folder walk right.
We're calling it walk right because he's walking right.
Once we create all of these sprites what we're going to do is we're going to make a copy of all of them
and we're going to flip them.
So they're going in the opposite direction because when you're playing a game you need your character
to go in both directions.
Now let's not forget to save out our frame just in case we ever need to make changes to it.
So we'll go file save as and let's save it to the walking cycle and we'll save this as frame two or
two
great.
I hope this is really starting to make sense to you.
If it's not that's OK.
Go ahead and ask all the questions you need in the Q and A section of the course.
I'm just here to help you learn.
Thanks for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.